---
tags:
- text-classification
- bert
---

# Model Card for bleurt-tiny-512 
 
# Model Details
 
## Model Description
 
Pytorch version of the original BLEURT models from ACL paper
 
- **Developed by:** Elron Bandel, Thibault Sellam, Dipanjan Das and Ankur P. Parikh of Google Research
- **Shared by [Optional]:** Elron Bandel
- **Model type:** Text Classification 
- **Language(s) (NLP):** More information needed
- **License:** More information needed 
- **Parent Model:** BERT
- **Resources for more information:**
     - [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/google-research/bleurt/tree/master)
 	  - [Associated Paper](https://aclanthology.org/2020.acl-main.704/)
    - [Blog Post](https://ai.googleblog.com/2020/05/evaluating-natural-language-generation.html)
 	


# Uses
 

## Direct Use
This model can be used for the task of Text Classification 
 
## Downstream Use [Optional]
 
More information needed.
 
## Out-of-Scope Use
 
The model should not be used to intentionally create hostile or alienating environments for people. 
 
# Bias, Risks, and Limitations
 
 
Significant research has explored bias and fairness issues with language models (see, e.g., [Sheng et al. (2021)](https://aclanthology.org/2021.acl-long.330.pdf) and [Bender et al. (2021)](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3442188.3445922)). Predictions generated by the model may include disturbing and harmful stereotypes across protected classes; identity characteristics; and sensitive, social, and occupational groups.



## Recommendations
 
 
Users (both direct and downstream) should be made aware of the risks, biases and limitations of the model. More information needed for further recommendations.

# Training Details
 
## Training Data
The model authors note in the [associated paper](https://aclanthology.org/2020.acl-main.704.pdf): 
> We use years 2017 to 2019 of the WMT Metrics Shared Task, to-English language pairs. For each year, we used the of- ficial WMT test set, which include several thou- sand pairs of sentences with human ratings from the news domain. The training sets contain 5,360, 9,492, and 147,691 records for each year. 
 
 
## Training Procedure

 
### Preprocessing
 
More information needed 
 
### Speeds, Sizes, Times
More information needed 

 
# Evaluation
 
 
## Testing Data, Factors & Metrics
 
### Testing Data
 
The test sets for years 2018 and 2019 [of the WMT Metrics Shared Task, to-English language pairs.]  are noisier,
 
 
 
### Factors
More information needed
 
### Metrics
 
More information needed
 
 
## Results 
 
More information needed

 
# Model Examination
 
More information needed
 
# Environmental Impact
 
Carbon emissions can be estimated using the [Machine Learning Impact calculator](https://mlco2.github.io/impact#compute) presented in [Lacoste et al. (2019)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.09700).
 
- **Hardware Type:** More information needed
- **Hours used:** More information needed
- **Cloud Provider:** More information needed
- **Compute Region:** More information needed
- **Carbon Emitted:** More information needed
 
# Technical Specifications [optional]
 
## Model Architecture and Objective

More information needed 
 
## Compute Infrastructure
 
More information needed 
 
### Hardware
 
 
More information needed
 
### Software
 
More information needed.
 
# Citation

 
**BibTeX:**
 
 
```bibtex
@inproceedings{sellam2020bleurt,
  title = {BLEURT: Learning Robust Metrics for Text Generation},
  author = {Thibault Sellam and Dipanjan Das and Ankur P Parikh},
  year = {2020},
  booktitle = {Proceedings of ACL}
}
```
 
 
 
 
# Glossary [optional]
More information needed 
 
# More Information [optional]
More information needed 

 
# Model Card Authors [optional]
 
 Elron Bandel in collaboration with Ezi Ozoani and the Hugging Face team


# Model Card Contact
 
More information needed
 
# How to Get Started with the Model
 
Use the code below to get started with the model.
 
<details>
<summary> Click to expand </summary>

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForSequenceClassification, AutoTokenizer
import torch

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("Elron/bleurt-tiny-512")
model = AutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained("Elron/bleurt-tiny-512")
model.eval()

references = ["hello world", "hello world"]
candidates = ["hi universe", "bye world"]

with torch.no_grad():
  scores = model(**tokenizer(references, candidates, return_tensors='pt'))[0].squeeze()

print(scores) # tensor([-0.9414, -0.5678])
 ```

See [this notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1KsCUkFW45d5_ROSv2aHtXgeBa2Z98r03?usp=sharing) for model conversion code. 
</details>
